And there's a lot of people who like
don't listen to the bank list podcast
that have very strong opinions about
bank lists. They have an opinion on bank
list from like the tweets that they read
or the tweets about banklist that other
people that Mert tweeted out uh and is
like creating some some like extremely
warped version of reality.
[Music]
Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewstoay.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we were joined by David
Hoffman, the co-host of Bankless and
general partner of Bankless VC. I just
want to give a shout out to David for
joining the pod which was a result of a
back and forth that we had on X Twitter
about the incentives and conflicts of
interest of running both a VC firm and a
large media entity in the crypto space.
In this conversation, we discussed how
David's thesis has changed during his
tenure working in blockchain. the three
criteria for podcast content that David
and his co-host Ryan choose to discuss,
why Bankless is a for-profit entity, the
duo's passion for Ethereum, lessons
learned from controversial moments over
the years, and so much more. Just a
reminder, nothing said on this podcast
is a solicitation to buy or sell any
tokens, and that the host or guest may
hold tokens discussed in any given
episode. You can check out a disclaimer
on
www.newtoday.com. If you enjoyed this
episode, please rate and review it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
share with friends and family. Every
rating, review, like, and comment helps
us reach more people and bring you more
of your favorite guests. With all that
said, I really enjoyed this conversation
with David, and I hope you enjoy it,
too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast. Today we're joined by
David Hoffman, the co-host for Bankless,
the general partner for Bankless VC and
the lifebringer to Bankless DAO. How you
doing today, David? Uh, really good.
Thanks for bringing me on, Dylan. Really
appreciate it. Yeah. Um, I think like
before we even start everything, I just
want to give a shout out to you. This
conversation came from a little bit of
back and forth where I was just saying,
I don't like this that Bank list did.
And you took the time to respond to me.
And I think over the years, you guys
have caught a lot of flack. So, I really
just wanted to open this opportunity to
have a longer form conversation about
what it's like to be a a media
personality on crypto Twitter and to
just like have a catchall for the things
that have been brought up over the years
and for you to just say this was our
reasoning. This was the logic. There's
no malicious intent behind this. Yeah.
Yeah. I think there is this
general like frustration
or feelings about like Bankas's arc
whereas like it started one way and it
has ended up a different way and that
different way is not what people like
wanted or expected and then like me and
Ryan when we see those reactions we get
like a little confused because it felt
very like natural to us and normal to us
and like we are inside of it right like
we're we're inside of the the little
structure that we have created and so
we're not also we're also not seeing it
from the outside and I think there's a
gap there about like our understanding
of bank lists and like the average
person's understanding of bank lists and
like it's maybe it's a comm's gap it's
like maybe it's a branding gap there's
there's some gap there and I don't know
how it got created uh but yeah sure I'm
I'm very happy to to like go into this
and try and explore that awesome I think
uh we'll we'll open the doors to clear
up a lot of misconceptions um just in
the response respon that you provided to
me, a lot of connections were made that
I just didn't see before. And I'm a guy
that makes content and podcasts in this
space. So, if it was easy for me to
miss, it has to be even easier for
people crypto to miss. I think it's the
default case that people have like we
just haven't elevated some aspects of
bankless. And I think just in general,
like being in the crypto space, we're
taught to be naturally adversarial. So,
it might not even be people's fault.
this is just the footing that they step
on and or or they start from and and
where they go. But before we kind of
like dig into everything, one of my
favorite questions about having guests
on this pod is just to hear folks kind
of like genesis moment. So I think like
if people dig through they can find the
genesis of of why you started bank list,
but but really like what was the first
time you heard Bitcoin of Bitcoin or
Ethereum? And if you're like me, you
probably glazed over it and then had an
aha moment later. So, what was just kind
of like the first time you heard about
any of these digital assets and then
what was your aha moment? My first
exposure to to Bitcoin was this website
Stumble Upon where you would just like
click Stumble Upon and you would get a
new website and you could like have it
cater different interests to you. And
so, I was interested in like tech and
philosophy and computers and games and
stuff like that. And so, I just stumbled
upon the Bitcoin white paper and I read
it and I was like, I don't get it. And
then I just kept on stumble uponing and
I every once in a while I was just like,
"Oh yeah, here's the Bitcoin white paper
again. I I have stumbled upon it once
again for like the seventh time. I still
don't get it. There's this thing called
mining like whatever." Uh and that was
my first exposure to it. So I knew
Bitcoin was this weird internet currency
thing with these weird dynamics that
like with mining and I didn't really get
it. So there my that was my first
exposure to it. Then never even thought
about buying it or anything. Uh, and
then it was in like December of 2016
when Bitcoin crossed like a thousand
dollars for the first time and I
download Coinbase and there's just
Bitcoin, Ether, and Litecoin. And that's
my first exposure to Ether and I'm like,
"Okay, I understand Bitcoin." I saw
Litecoin, too. Ether, no clue what that
is. No clue what that is. And then I did
nothing. Once again, just did nothing.
Didn't do anything. And then it was in
the middle of 2017 when these gaming
subreddits are all complaining about um
high GPU prices. And I'm like, what's
going on with this? I have a GPU. Like,
who are these miners that are jacking up
GPU prices? What are they mining? Uh and
then I realized that I go through this
process of setting setting up NASA and
I'm mining mining Ether and getting paid
like $5 a day. I'm like, "Oh, this is
this is kind of sick." Uh and I'm like
on my way to physical therapy school.
I'm broke, so I need passive income. And
I'm like, "Oh, okay. let's let's see if
I can scale this up. Uh and so I end up
building uh like using all my money
selling all the the my entire Robin Hood
portfolio which was Nvidia and AMD. And
if I had held that actually it would
have been great but I didn't because I
sold it all for mining computers and I
built four mining computers, put them
into different corners of my dad's house
from the from like July of 2017 to
August of 2017 where I got those things
set up and then I was like invested in
it and then I was like okay I'm mining
I'm mining like $40 a day. That's pretty
sick. Um, what is it that I am mining?
Like what is this Ethereum thing? It's
pretty cool that I'm like processing and
validating transactions in my own home.
I have a bit of the financial system
inside my home. That's kind of cool. I
can now understand the metaphor of like,
oh, this is inside out Wall Street.
Like, and now I'm a stakeholder in Wall
Street rather than Wall Street being
closed off to me. I really understood
that conceptually without really knowing
too much about how blockchain works. Uh
meanwhile like I'm studying I'm also
trying to get into physical therapy
school and so like I'm trying to study
for the GRE and my level of effort for
the GRE is up here and then my level of
interest in crypto is down here and it
just slowly just inverts and my time
spent like trying to get into physical
therapy school drops to zero and I get
myself out to ETH Denver 2018 uh and um
that's that I when I'm at the hackathon
uh I'm I'm supposed to be there for two
days and on the third day I'll go up to
Boulder and tour the physical therapy
school and then Sunday came and I was
like, you know what, I'm just going to
stay at ETH Denver. Uh, and that was the
moment for me. I was like, okay, I'm
just I'm clearly not applying myself to
physical therapy school. I'm instead
going to do this Ethereum thing. And
like at ETH Denver, I had written out
and printed out um like like 20 pounds
of paper from three different articles
that I had written and I had to staple
them together and I was handing out like
written articles. I was like, "Hey,
please read my article. Hey, like please
read my article." Uh, and that's like
how some of the first people I met in
crypto like remember me is because like
I handed them like a physical article of
just like here's here are some thoughts
that I have about like crypto. They're a
very philosophical high level. This was
like meaningful to me. Please read this.
Um, and that was that was my genesis
into crypto and that's when I like
started to learn to like be a content
producer and so started writing on my
medium. Um, grew a following that way.
Ryan, my co-host started reading my uh
written stuff. I also had a podcast that
I did with my college friend called POV
crypto. He was a Bitcoiner. I was the
Ethereum guy. We just yelled at each
other for 60 minutes. Uh that grew into
like this bare market market darling
podcast throughout 2018 through 2020.
And then Ryan and I started the bankless
podcast in early 2020. Uh and he had
started the bankless newsletter and I
was starting to write for the Banklist
newsletter. And then in September of
2020, after doing the podcast for six
months, we were like, "Okay, let's put a
ring on this. Uh this is working out. Uh
let's make this a company." And we made
Bankless LLC in September of 2020.
That's awesome. I think also that's a
nugget of gold that I hadn't heard
before. Um I just moved back to Denver
from the Bay Area for ETH Denver 1. So I
unfortunately missed uh the 20 2018
event, but I do miss those days in the
sport castle. Yeah, the Sport Castle was
great, man. I love the Sport Castle.
Yeah, that's also where um I caught
COVID for the first time at ETH Denver
2020. So Oh, really? Oh, wow. That was
that was the first one. Yeah. Uhhuh.
Yeah. Shout out. That was uh my first
um physical po
actually. Um so yeah, that's that's a
super fascinating arc. Um I think it's a
fantastic overlap that you were in
Denver for Eat Denver and decided to
bail on going to check out the physical
therapy school up in up in Boulder. Um,
so like you're chatting with RSA, you're
having this podcast where you're going
back and forth with like a Bitcoin guy
and you're and you're representing the
Ethereum stance. What was it that was
like, "All right, let's do the let's do
the Bankless Podcast because clearly you
got your feet dirty in learning how to
mine. You started creating content,
started building a medium following.
What was it that said to you and and RSA
like we need to jump into to creating a
podcast? we have a voice that no one's
heard and like what was the thing that
you wanted to start sharing with people?
Yeah. Uh I think it was a bunch of
different ingredients. Ryan was
listening to my podcast. Uh I'm I'm
assuming pretty religiously. Uh I was
writing in my opinion banger articles
about Ethereum. Like I I was putting a
ton of work into them. So I was writing
like one article a month and they were
long and they were like deep and they
were and I like really cut my teeth like
writing these long these long pieces.
And like back in the day, like there was
almost no content producers about
Ethereum. Like Anthony Sesano hadn't
even made the Daily Quake yet. I was one
of the few people writing anything. And
like it was me and Ryan. And so we were
the only like content producers. Uh and
then Pomp, the Pomp podcast was defining
the time at 2018 through 2020. Like it
was the Pomp podcast and then there was
like a longtail Bitcoin podcast, but
Pomp was really killing it. And so I
think Ryan knew that like oh writing
because Ryan has started the bankless
newsletter uh in 2019 and he was writing
every single article um five days a week
and so he was just brute forcing that
just like I can't imagine how stressful
that like every single day it was a paid
article it was a paid newsletter so the
first four were free but then the fifth
release on Friday was paid and he had he
just had to ship that and um I think he
very quickly learned that like that
doesn't scale uh and so he learned to
have like guest posts he grew up a
following and then and And once his
following is big enough, he could like
leverage that following to like, hey,
somebody else, uh, you're an authority
on this on subject. Please write for me.
And so he learned to like kind of scale
out that. Um, but then I was in his DMs
being like, you are like missing the
whole podcast vertical. It's way better
for distribution. It's way more fun.
It's way more scalable. Um, I think you
should start the Bankless Podcast. And
he was like, no, no, no. That's a bad
idea. I'm like, you're wrong, bro. Uh,
and so finally, I think I just said
like, okay, we will start the Bankless
Podcast. it'll be us. I'll I'll edit it
because I can edit podcast. I know how
to do that. I know you don't know how to
do that. I can do that. Uh and then we
will start the bankless podcast. And
that was what tipped him over is like,
okay, this is I can do this. Um and Ryan
has a very high standard. He's like he's
not going to do something half-ass. Like
he he has to he has to turn it into a 10
out of 10 product or he's not going to
do it. Uh and so I think with the two of
us and understanding that like
podcasting is a superior distribution
technology, he was convinced to do the
podcast. Yeah, I think uh a little bit
later I would love to touch into like
just the costs that are associated with
putting out a high quality production
because a lot of people just consume
this content for free but don't realize
that there's a lot that goes into
equipment that goes into post-production
that goes into distribution. So
hopefully we can touch on that later.
Um, and and maybe we can kind of like
start delving in to the content subject
matter a little bit, but I also want to
give you an opportunity to like paint a
picture for a question that will
eventually come up. So, how have your
thesis changed a little bit since you
entered the space? You started out, you
and RSA were super pro- Ethereum and you
were espousing the virtues of the
Ethereum ecosystem and in the years
since, as you responded to me in in your
written letter, that the L1 ecosystem
has just exploded and grown beyond
Ethereum. So maybe we can use this as an
opportunity for you to share how your
thesis might have changed a little bit
from when you started Banklist to where
we're at today. Yeah, there's like a lot
of those like early articles that I
wrote about early like early on were all
thesis, right? Like there was the money
legos piece. Uh there was protocol sync
thesis u which basically states that
like the more credibly neutral and
decentralized a protocol is the more
scale like scalable it is more more
things can be built on top of it. And so
there's a bunch of like early thesis
triple point asset thesis. I think all
of these are like they're still like
valid, but I think the thing that's
changed uh in my mind about them is that
the strength of them feels weaker today,
especially as crypto got has gotten more
real. They were very useful like mental
models like anchors of understanding
back in the day and then as crypto has
gotten from like literally just our
imaginations because like that's what
crypto was in 2018 any the 2018 through
2019 era before DeFi really like set
foot like it was just pure imagination.
There was nothing there was nothing on
Ethereum to do. Like Maker Dow came in
in like 2018. That was the only thing.
And Maker Dow was a niche inside of
Ethereum which was a niche inside of
crypto. Like Ethereum in 2018 was just
like as big a deal as like any other
like all blockchain. So like it wasn't
obvious. It was nonobvious. And so the
these thesis thesis were like really
good anchors for like understanding how
things will unfold. And then like they
kind of like were they were pretty
useful for a while, but now I think like
the rules of the meta are different now
that like the protocol sync thesis I
think is just less applicable and less
useful as a tool. And so like I still
think they're generally correct, but
like being able to apply them and
leverage them as an investor I think is
less other metas have taken over have
been more salient. And so there's like
other ideas out there that I think are
just more um like Kobe Kobe right wrote
that article about like investing in the
the the changing metas and I think
that's just like way more useful of a
mental model to understand and it's it's
less about the architecture of things.
It's more about trading in crypto which
is I'm just not good at that nor am I
interested in it. And so like the things
that I have been interested in and like
inspired by and passionate about in
crypto seem to be like kind of in the
rear view mirror as in terms of just
like what other people care about in
crypto. And so like that's something
that I have like personally had to come
to terms with is like the things that I
care about and find interesting in only
scale so far uh to like the rest of the
crypto industry. Um, and so that's how
that's how I would say like my ideas
have adapted is like well like some of
the ideas I think are cool are like
actually just more interesting to just
like me and Ryan more than they are like
broadly crypto. Yeah. And so speaking of
that um how do you kind of like keep
your finger on the pulse for for what's
going on? Obviously when you and Ryan
started it was just you two working on
this but you've also scaled to grow the
banklist team. So maybe this is like a
two-part question. A how big is the
banklist team and and what are their
focuses? and B, how do you keep your
finger on the pulse for what's happening
these days? Yeah, I mean the easy and
obvious answer is um just Twitter. Um
because there like keeping your finger
on the polls is just talking to people
and listening to people and that's
Twitter is just where that's happening.
And so there are like my select sources
of who I think our signal um and I will
attune to them better. Like if I want to
know about what's going on in Ethereum,
I just go listen to Anthony Sidano or um
or Tim Beo or something like that. Uh,
and so like I I have different like
experts that are relevant for certain
sectors. Like Ajaz, my AI rollup
co-host. If I if something's going on in
AI crypto, I'm going to go talk to him.
Uh, but then also inside of the Banklist
Discord, we have we have like this like
pulse category. Uh, and so there is AI
pulse, uh, AI agent pulse, onchain
pulse, markets pulse, crypto pulse. And
this is we just throw news and links and
tweets in there as a team and we just
organize these by these different
sectors. Uh, and so then like each one
is just kind of so we have it's like
it's useful to having more eyeballs on
different sectors and like if anyone is
listening to this and they're not in a
group chat who's doing the same thing
like you're not you're you're slow
you're too slow like like you need
multiple eyeballs all kind of like
focusing on different metas and you need
to be a part of that system. Uh and uh
so to answer your question about the
bankless team uh we have like three uh
people on the podcast team. So three
podcast editors who all wear multiple
hats but they're also scheduling
managers. Uh they also help produce
agendas. Um uh so it's like a kind of a
full scope podcast team. Three people on
the podcast team. Um three people on the
newsletter team, a newsletter editor. Uh
we have three people on the website
team. So like um like a chief engineer
and then um another engineer and then a
a head of product. There's two or two
ops queens um Rachel and Caitlyn. um a
handful of contractors, but it it comes
out to about like 18 people on the media
side of things. Uh and then on the
venture side of things, three GPS and
then two investment associates and then
an an occasional intern. Well, shout out
to you for uh responding to a DM and
scheduling this yourself without going
through your scheduling manager. Uh
props. Um cool. So, uh, to jump into
kind of like why we were here, I just
want to once again say thank you for
coming into the lines den. Someone
called you out, you responded, and I
think you had very fair responses. Um,
so maybe we can just kind of like start
from uh the the shift that that you and
your team have made. I think a lot of
misconceptions that crypto Twitter might
have about bank list is that you guys
are the Ethereum shills. Um, and one of
the things that first kind of like gave
me wonder was when I started seeing
advertisements and articles and content
outside the Ethereum ecosystem. So I
thought, hm, I thought these were like
the Ethereum maxis and now they're
talking to me about Salana. They're
talking to me about say they're
propagating all these L2s and I don't
know if I agree with the L2 rollup
thesis or not. So I just started having
a lot of opportunities to like
internally shift what I thought you guys
were which was Ethereum maxis. So maybe
we can just like take a moment to
address bankless being viewed as
Ethereum maxis and maybe just like
address like what the realism is for for
what bankless is and and what you guys
are trying to do. Yeah. And I guess that
answer is also kind of a moving target.
Um, like the the Banklist podcast is
mine and Ryan's podcast. And so we are
the editorial decision makers as to like
what goes on the podcast. And so what
goes on the podcast is it's kind of like
a three-way optimization function
between what we are interested in uh
what our listeners want to hear about uh
and what we think is good for the world.
So like one is like public goods, one is
just like our intrinsic interests
because good content comes from co-hosts
that are intrinsically interested in
about the subject. And then we're since
we are a business, we need to make sure
that we're actually making content that
actually wants people want to consume
because we're a business like you at
some point you have to actually pay the
bills. Uh so you have to optimize for
views. So optimize for what we want to
contribute to the world, optimize for
views, optimize for what we think is
intrinsically interesting. So it's a
multivariate like combination between
those three things. Uh, but that's also
just the podcast. Uh, I mean, and I
think some people maybe look at the bank
list like content sphere and maybe get
confused because it seems maybe it seems
like a little bit schizophrenic. Uh,
because like David and Ryan on the
podcast are like Ethereum bulls. But
then if you go look at the bank list
newsletter, it's there's it's like a
different voice and that's because we're
not writing the newsletter anymore.
We're doing the podcast. We have like a
bench of writers who write with some
like level of mandate that some
optimization uh function that's similar
to that but like the writers are writing
about what they think is in
intrinsically interesting and like me
and Ryan are never going to tell them
like yo you write about Ethereum that's
your job like we're never going to tell
them that we so we tell them like to
that there's some optimization function
of like hey like make sure you write
what people want want to read like
optimize for what people want to read
because we're we're a newsletter we're a
website we have we want traffic, that's
the business, but also write about what
you think is intrinsically interesting
because those two things have synergies
together. And so when we hire someone,
like I don't know if you've noticed, but
if you the younger people in crypto care
less about Ethereum and they tend to
like the shinier, newer things. They
like the like the zoomers of crypto, the
younger millennials of crypto really
liked Salana back when it was just
Salana versus Ethereum. And now like now
zoomers just don't really care about
Ethereum uniquely at all. They think of
it as just like they don't think
Ethereum is special in the way that
Ethereum people think Ethereum is
special. I think Ethereum is special,
but I'm also not going to like tell my
writers what they can and cannot say.
Like they could they I want them to
optimize for what they think is
intrinsically interesting because that's
how I learned to be content producer.
That's how I got to be where I am is I
just wrote about the things that I find
intrinsically interesting. And part of
like scaling the business is like yo,
you got to let some parts go. like we
don't we don't want to be like totally
like dogmatic about what our writers are
writing about anyways. Uh and so we we
have a newsletter editor. He manages uh
the the writers and they write what they
think is interesting and they write
about what the market wants to hear and
what they think is cool and that kind of
leads to the if you go to banklist.com
that will lead into the articles about
the relevant subject spheres that people
find interesting. And I think some
people in Ethereum were like frustrated
about that. Like why is Bankless writing
this article about like the top 10
opportunities on Salana? Well, the
answer as to why Banklist is writing
about the top 10 opportunities on Salana
is because well, one of our writers is
interested in it and that's what the
market wants. Like that's what the
people want to hear. And I am not like
maybe I am not going to do a podcast on
that because I'm not intrinsically
interested in that subject, but I'm not
going to tell one of my employees to not
do that because it's what he wants. It's
what they want and it's what the market
wants. And it's actually Ethereum's
problem that that is what the market
wants. It's not my problem. That is
Ethereum's problem. But I think that
gets at the gap between like, okay,
well, Bankless was a quite literally an
Ethereum only podcast for a very long
time. And then when me and Ryan were
writing the newsletter and in the early
days, not only were we only writing
about Ethereum, but almost Ethereum was
the only thing to write about. And so
there was this like perceived
exclusivity that we had to the Ethereum
ecosystem, but then like Salana brought
this thing um like parallelism to the
table and that captured mind share. And
there's no way to talk about parallelism
without talking about Salana. And I'm
trying to educate myself as an investor
in crypto. So I'm not going to like
stick my head in the sand and become
naive to the ideas of parallelism just
because it doesn't happen inside of the
Ethereum ecosystem. One of the things
that really impacted me with my like
growing up in crypto was like learning
about how Bitcoin maximalists treated um
us Ethereum people and wanting to not at
all repeat those same mistakes because
that dug Bitcoin maximalism into a hole.
like they just made up complete complete
fail like in just lies about like
Ethereum node requirements. It was it
was complete lies and it was like it was
intentionally dishonest and there's no
way I I don't have that gene in my body
to like have that same desire to play
that same game against someone like
Salana. I think that like Ethereum is
like bankless kind of gets we get um
branded as like sometimes nuns that like
wrap people's fingernails. I think
Ethereum is morally superior to Salana
as a technical architecture, but that
does not stop me from like appreciating
technical breakthroughs that Salana has
brought to the world. And it would make
me a worse investor if I did not
understand that. And then it would also
like our audience isn't as Ethereum
maximalists as we are. Like they also
want to learn about parallelism or like
the trade-off space of I IBRL. Uh and so
I'm in addition to all the things I
said, I also want to be a good investor
in crypto. And that means being open to
alternatives. And so as as like you can
probably like look at the Ethereum
dominance percentage and when it was 44%
people thought bank lists were Ethmaxis
and now when it's like 7% like we are
actually like very well distributed
because where are the topics of
conversation coming from? It's coming
from a much wider distribution that's
outside of the Ethereum Loki and that
has followed along with the decline of
Ethereum dominance in in the crypto
space.
So that was one of the things that
actually forced me to check my previous
assumptions about the bank list team was
realizing that you guys have just grown
into a business and you employ up to
eight people 18 people now. And when you
just like spelled it out that we want
our writers creating content that drives
them. I as a content creator want to
create content about things that I find
interesting. And so when you're saying
that the people you employ, you're
empowering them to write about what they
want, how could I reasonably get upset
about that when if I had an employer,
that is exactly what I would want them
to be doing for me. So um yeah, I think
people think that like we write me and
Ryan write every single article that
comes out of like banklist.com, which is
just there's there's too much time
there. I don't have that much time. I
barely have enough time to do like four
podcasts a week, but like but there's
there's five articles that come out of
bank list every single day. Like that's
that's a completely new uh like set of
individuals. Yeah. So I think another
thing that really helped kind of expand
the way I should view bankless is and
maybe I'll take a step back. The way
that this podcast is funded is we are a
validator node on the NEO ecosystem and
we funnel a portions of our proceeds for
being a validator node into supporting
the podcast because ultimately we
believe that while this is a protocol
agnostic pod, I can use my examples
working in the Neo ecosystem to kind of
market Neo just by relating to the way
that others are building using the way
that I've been learning about blockchain
which is working in NEO since 2018. So
um we have a different funding model. We
have we have a constant stream of income
that's coming from a source from a
network that we validate. When you
mentioned that Bank list has started
from day one being a for-profit company,
there are inherently things that I just
don't understand because that's not the
way that we try to expand or grow the
audience for the Smart Economy podcast.
So, can you also maybe take a moment to
walk us through why Bankless focused on
being for-profit and what are some of
the pros and cons of having the freedom
of being forprofit? What are the
opportunities that it opens you up to,
but what are the constraints in terms of
feedback you might have heard from
people over the years? Yeah. I I mean
the the majority of the answer is like
why did you guys choose to make a
for-profit business is any answer that
you would expect is like well I want to
like make money and have a job. Like I
need to do something with my life that
pays the bills. Like why does anyone
start a business? Like we started bank
list as a business because why for any
of the same reasons that somebody would
start a business in the first place. But
like ignoring that um like we were the
first media entity in Ethereum when we
started in 2019 2020 uh
that well I think we were actually the
first media entity in Ethereum period.
Like there was like CoinDesk and uh
Decrypt and Cointelegraph but none of
them were really in Ethereum. And when
we started like it was probably like 18
months of time before we did like a
non-thereum episode. So like the
understanding that Ethereum was like ETH
maxi is like totally justified because
like for 18 months we just only talked
about Ethereum. One part because it's it
was intrinsically interesting to us and
another part was like that was literally
all there was to talk about and like
there we could have talked about Bitcoin
but there was already like 30,000
Bitcoin podcasts out there so we didn't
need to cover it. um why why do um a
for-profit business um in the context of
Ethereum was that there was just this
incredible ang and you're actually
seeing this angst in Ethereum again
today and there was this incredible
angst throughout 2019 through 2020 that
education and branding and awareness
about Ethereum was dog and it
always has been dog and uh like one
of that one of the reasons was that was
that because like there was all of this
like and this persists again to this
Hey, in the Ethereum culture, there's
this big
kumbaya about like Ethereum education
and like, oh yeah, let's just like run a
grant about making some educational
video. Like it it doesn't work. It
doesn't scale it. And you need a
for-profit business with for-profit
incentives to scale their education and
distribution and awareness of the things
that they are talking about. So, we
started Bankless to be a to be a
business. I quit my job uh as like a COO
of a of a tokenized um real estate
startup. I quit my job to start
banklist. I needed to pay money. Need to
need to get money. Um, and but then on
on top of that, like it was also to to
actually do the thing that the Ethereum
community had been like complaining
about for over a year about if you go
onto YouTube and you type in crypto, you
get this you get data dash. This old
crypto YouTuber doing YouTube charts and
he's also fun fact was I don't think he
exists anymore was funded by like he
would just receive a token. He would do
an episode about the token and he would
sell the token uh bit boy styles. So
like the Ethereum was like on one side
of things we have this amazing platform
built by Vitalic. It's so incredible.
It's going to change the world. And you
go on to YouTube and you find Bit Boy.
So like that's Ethereum problem. We need
we need somebody to go toe-to-toe with
that. And so Ryan and I did that. No one
else is doing that. Ryan and I stepped
up and we made this for-profit business
that would scale and then we could hire
a team. Like I'm not a I'm like you
should see some of the dog
thumbnails that I made in 2020 when we
started the podcast. Now we have because
we are successful. We have a very
expensive graphic designer who makes
incredible thumbnails. And that goes to
toe-to-toe optimizing the click-through
rate of our videos to make sure that if
you type in crypto that we come ahead of
Bit Boy or whoever the new like YouTuber
is of the time. And that's what it
takes. You need to have a for-profit
model to go toe-to-toe elevate Ethereum
to be where it ought to be. And that's
what we did. That's what we did. Uh and
we did that for like for 18 months. And
then we started to like, okay, well,
like something else in crypto is like
interesting to me and it happens to not
be Ethereum. And so now we're we've
built up this structure and this
competency at elevating our content and
distributing our content. And then we
started to point it elsewhere. Um, we we
first pointed it to like AI with Eleas
or Udowski. Uh, but then we started to
do like non-thereum episodes and now the
Ethereum community is like, "Yo, whoa,
whoa, whoa. Like you guys built up this
incredible distribution platform. Now
you're talking about like Salana, like
what gives?" And we're like, "Ah, we
don't know. Oh, we're just like talking
about the the thing that all of crypto
Twitter is talking about first off and
it's interesting to us too. And so I
think there was some like disappointment
in the Ethereum community is like, yo,
like we supported you guys. Uh we helped
elevate you guys and now you guys are
just like 18 on this. And we're like I
didn't feel like it was a 180. I first
felt like I was doing my job. And
there's always like a trade-off of like
if you don't give the broader listener
base what they want, then they're
they're going to go elsewhere. And so
like my response to the Ethereum
community when we are critiqued with
like abandoning Ethereum is like well
the two bankless co-hosts have their
biggest bags in ETH and it's the second
there is no second to us. There is no
second place to ETH to us in our bags.
And so we're going to go bring Anatoli
onto the podcast and we're going to get
a listener base that we otherwise
wouldn't have because we are known at as
this like ETH Maxi podcast and some
percentage of that new listener base is
going to like the podcast and they're
going to subscribe and they're going to
stick around and they're going to become
listeners and then if for every episode
that they continue to listen to they are
listening to two people with a huge bag
of ETH and that is the compromise.
That's a sacrifice that we have to make
in order to grow the brand in order to
like bring back people down to the very
bottom of the bank list funnel, which is
like listening to the Bank list podcast
co-hosts uh when whatever they talk
about. That's that's that's the hard
choices that a for-profit business would
make that a nonprofit god bless him
Anthony Sazano
volunteerbased content production like
organization doesn't have to think about
because like Anthony Sano literally only
makes content about Ethereum. No one in
Salon is going to listen to Anthony
Sisano, but somebody in Salon is going
to come listen to Bankless. And then we
are pulling people in closer towards
Ethereum because Ethereum is what we
believe in and Ethereum is the the the
investments that we are positioned in.
And yes, we are doing other things that
are not Ethereum content. But it's like
it's it's the right ROI strategy. It's
the right EV strategy for Ethereum for
us to go and do non-Ethereum episodes to
bring people into the Ethereum sphere.
Like that's how I would position it.
Yeah, I 100% empathize with the spend
most of your time caring about one
ecosystem, be largely exposed to a
particular ecosystem, but create content
for your content uh media distribution
platforms in a protocol agnostic way. I
mean that is exactly what this podcast
is actually. So I think you brought up
um a really kind of like sad model that
we see today. uh you know if a large
scale entity go read Zack XBT uh to see
who some of these players are to get
called out for receiving token
allocations and then dumping immediately
after they talk about the token insert X
token here on their media distribution
platform. You can kind of see the the
nasty side of of the payto-play model.
What without necessarily like delving
into specific details or sharing your
exact secret sauce, what does the
general sponsorship method for for
Bankless Media look like? Yeah, it looks
like any other podcast with advertisers.
We have different like offerings. So,
you can um sponsor us for a quarter at a
particular rate. You can sponsor us for
a year. We have CPMs, so cost per
million, which is just like what what
how much do we charge you for like 1
million impressions? And then you you
pay us that money and then you agree to
that for a quarter or two quarters or or
a year. Um there's like different kind
of form factors. So you have like the
regular like pre-recorded ads which are
like the most those are like the
bankless sponsor ads. Then we do like
this one unique ad which we call the
blitz which is more of a shorter term
thing. That's the only like live ad read
that I read out on the podcast. Um and
that run rotates a little bit faster.
It's a little bit more for like product
releases or more short-term
announcements like a conference. It
started off when Coindesk reached out to
us and say, "Hey, we want to broadcast,
we want to advertise um Coindesk
consensus on bank lists and it happens
in three weeks and we're like, well, you
we go by quarters, so we can't really
fit you in, but I guess we could do this
one custom package where we would just
read out your script for the two weeks
leading up to the conference and then
that's how we made the blitz. We call
that the blitz. Uh, and so that's that's
sponsoring the bankless podcast and then
you can sponsor the bankless newsletter
and you get a little graphic on the
website and inside of the uh inside of
the articles and it's just like a b
basic trafficbased business. Uh, and so
we show our sponsors how much traffic
that we get and what their expected like
traffic conversions would be and then we
give them a number and then they pay
that. Speaking of conferences, you guys
uh co-th through Permissionless,
co-hosted Permissionless. Um, by the
way, congrats on your fight. I was
there. Thank you. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Watch shared uh shared some some nice
clips, too. I got some some good uh
images of of you landing some blows. Um,
so what are kind of like uh what's the
outlook for for future conferences that
that Bank list looks to kind of like
co-produce? Are you guys going to do
permissionless 4? Do you have other
conferences on the radar? Um, so
permissionless for is happening in June
in um June 22nd to 24th I think in
Brooklyn, which is really great because
that's where I live. We're actually not
um partnering with Block Works this
we're letting them do that do it on
their own this year and that's just
because I don't know if you noticed but
like Ryan's been on sobatical for um
three months um just like the crypto
industry is kind of like bad vibes um
and it it's like not any not it's not
really any particular reason like uh
there's no like fallout between banklist
and Blockworks. I love those guys. Mike
and Jason are are my friends. Um we just
decided to just not do it this year just
for a workload reason especially when
like there's a two person podcast with
only one person right now. Ryan will
come back in like a month or so. Um, so
we just opted out for doing it this
year. Um, so maybe we'll do it next
year. Uh, we'll see. We'll kind of take
it year by year. But then we also do
have started the bankless summit. Uh, so
this is like a kind of a one-day side
event, TED talks for Ethereum um, side
event that we do um that we did the
first one at DevCon in Bangkok and then
we'll do the second one in Buenosaris
for Devcon and just one day of talks.
Um, and like the the position that we
give is like there's no panels. If you
ever go to a crypto conference, it's
just like seven person panels and
they're all terrible. Uh and so my rule
is that there are no panels. There are
speakers who are giving talks or
presentations or something and that's
all that there are. Uh and it's a way
better form factor. It's way more like
listener friendly rather than like
having this like kind of brand
affiliation side event thing. Um and so
yeah, the next the second Bank list
summit will be in um DV connect and
bonus. Cool. And so that's also
something that I've always kind of
gained value out of banklist was just
that it is indeed, you know, a high
quality source of education, educational
content. So, um, to kind of like dig
into another misconception of mine that
you helped kind of open my eyes to and
and really paint a better picture for,
um, I sort of over the years working in
the NEO ecosystem, I've had a lot of
opportunities to get entrance into ICOs,
into early token allocations, into
pre-sales. I've even had projects just
want to give me tokens and NFTts just as
a token of appreciation. And one of the
things we've always done is just said no
uh because it really helps us just
maintain that there's no conflict of
interest. So this is probably my bias
coming into um the bankless episodes.
But one of the things that really like
turned my heels around was when I
realized that there's a bankless VC arm
and then there's a bankless media arm.
and you did a fantastic job of kind of
differentiating between the two and also
kind of like showing that you have to
earn your chops to if if you're a VC
project VC funded project to end up on
Bankless Media. But maybe you could just
kind of like take a moment to share
where people who might think like me um
could be right, could be wrong, however.
Um, how do you steal man like against
what my thought process was that like,
oh, here's a media company with the VC
branch and and any project you hear on
on on their podcast is now uh, you know,
lining their their their pockets. I
mean, like, I think it's a very expected
and obvious conclusion to come to. It's
like, oh, the biggest podcast in the
crypto industry has a venture arm. Like
when people just look at that on a
cursory glance, they're like, "Oh, well,
they clearly use their podcast to
elevate their projects. It's obvious.
Why wouldn't they do that? That's just
so obvious. It's clearly what they do."
Uh, and like I understand that is uh a
it's an easy conclusion to come to.
Makes a ton of sense. I think people
have done that before. Um, but like just
strictly from incentive. Like I've
actually made no money from Bankless
Ventures because we haven't we haven't
we're 2 years old and in addition like
me it's the GPS of Bankless Ventures are
me, Ryan and Ben Loff. Ryan and I do not
take a salary from Bankless Ventures.
That's unique GPS like that's usually
their job. U it's Ben Ben Leoff is our
full-time banklist Ventures GP. He takes
a salary uh and then we just take the
salary that Ryan and I would have gotten
and we just give it to our analysts and
we can kind of have like a bolstered
analyst position because Ryan and I
don't need need the money. We get paid
already from Bankless Media. Uh and
that's that. Um so my personal
incentives I actually just get more
money from Bankless Media than Bankless
Ventures because media pays me a salary
and then I'm one of the business owners
of media. So like any profit so the
company also goes to is split between me
and Ryan. Uh, and so like strictly
speaking like where do my incentives
lie? I get more money from bankless
media. I get more money from um from
making better content that that people
want to listen to and that does better.
I personally financially my incentives
do better when bankless media the media
entity does better. If I pivoted the
bankless media organization to be like a
distribution channel for bankless
ventures, media profits would go down
because like people there's a there's an
incentive misalignment between like the
early stage companies that we invest in
at Bankless Ventures and what bankless
media is interested. Bankless Media is
large enough where if we take some like
niche early stage seed investment that
we invested in and we elevate them,
people are like, "Why are we listening
to this project I've never heard of?"
Like, I don't want I'm not going to
click on that episode. I've never heard
of it. Don't know how it impacts me.
It's not what I came to YouTube to look
for. Bankless Media is more like a
weather vein. Like, you know those
little things that like spin around
depending on which way the wind blows.
like, okay, uh, we like I wake up every
single Monday, every new week, and I'm
like, all right, what do what do people
want to like hear about? And so, like, I
did an episode with Jim Biano about
like, is Trump trying to destroy the
economy? That's what people wanted to
hear about. That did well on the YouTube
algorithm. That that did numbers. That
was great. Um, what's not going to do
well is talking about this one like
niche investment that I made that I hope
does well, but if it does do well, it'll
do well in like two years, not not right
now. And so there's just like a a time
difference between the incentives of
Bankless Media and uh Bankless Ventures.
Now, every time I take a call with a
Bankless Ventures portfolio company that
or a potential one, we always tell them
it's like on if we do decide to invest,
we just hey, we just tell them, hey,
this check that we're going to write you
does not get you on the podcast. That is
not We just tell them that every single
time. We make it very clear that being a
Banklist Ventures portfolio company does
not get you on the podcast. We tell them
what the criteria is for being on the
podcast. And I tell them like, "Yeah,
like people want to already know who you
are before they click on you or you need
some like really good reason about some
like thing that you think is going to be
like gamechanging and then and then me
and Ryan also agree with that." Uh, and
so it's a once again an optimization
function between like does it
intrinsically interest me? Do I think
it's good for the world and is it what
people want? And so when any one of our
portfolio companies um checks any of
like those boxes sufficiently then then
the game is on like then we can actually
like have that discussion and see if
they're a good fit for the podcast. But
that is also what we do about every
single project in crypto. Uh the benefit
that Bank list ventures portfolio
companies have is like they have a
conduit to me and Ryan and so we can
kind of like coach them into like what
media readiness looks like and and how
to get media ready. But that starts with
like a good product that people care
about which is what they need to do in
the first place. And so like some people
people worry that the order of
operations and like totally rightly so
that like we invest in a company and
then we put them on the podcast and then
their token goes up and then maybe later
they'll build a product and like that's
not what that's not what we do. Like the
only way to come on the podcast is you
have a product that people care about
that now people want to hear from the
founders about and they want to hear
their favorite uh two co-hosts interview
their the project that they find
interesting. Uh and so like I like I
said it's totally like normal and I and
even though it's wrong to assume that
the relationship between ventures and
media is like oh yeah media like media
is just a distribution platform for
ventures but also bankless ventures is a
$39 million fund. It's it's very small
if the if the the size of media
profitability versus ventures ventures
like the size of the fund is just too
skewed in media's favor. Like we are a
bigger media company than Bankless
Ventures is a venture firm and so the
size of that is just not it would make
sense. It it's like when Sam Bankman
Freed destroyed his profitable FTX
exchange to save his dog prop
trading firm. Like why did he do that?
That's what that's what if I started to
like elevate my portfolio companies from
bankless media on from bankless ventures
on bankless media I would destroy the
value of bankless media in order to prop
up the value of bankless ventures and I
I don't want to do that. Like I like
podcasting. I hope I podcast for the
rest of my life. That is my retirement
plan. Like I'm currently designing a
house that I built forever ago in
Seattle. I'm building a little podcast
room in it. I plan on podcasting for the
rest of my life. Why would I destroy
that
business? Yeah. Um, and for the sake of
brevity, because I don't want to run uh
too much over time, uh, I hope I'm I'm
coming off fair and objective asking
this question, but how do you guys get
lines on projects that you choose to
invest in? Is it a result of
high-profile people coming on to bank
lists and then you getting introduced to
people or is it just the result of being
in the Ethereum ecosystem for so long?
Like, how do we get deal flow for bank?
Yeah. Um well we have a very very killer
investment um associate Brent who finds
deal flow faster than we had ever found
them before. The way we started Bank
with Ventures is really quick was Ryan
and I were taking a bunch of angel calls
in 2020 one and 2022. It was it ended up
taking like it was like five meetings a
week at some point in time and I was
like wow this is taking a lot of our
time. I wonder if we could like process
this and turn this into a process. Let's
hire an analyst to who understands angel
investing better than we do. So we could
become better angel investors. Like oh
if we're going to hire an analyst that's
going to take a salary, why would we pay
him with media salary? It's not a media
thing. Let's we could like like raise
money from friends and family and then
we could invest their money too and we
could take a cut and then it could pay
for the analyst. I'm like oh wait that's
what a VC fund is. So we realized that
in 2021 we put that idea back on the
shelf. We found Ben Lakeoff late 2022.
We're like okay this is the perfect
third general partner to lead bankless
ventures. let's make Bankless Ventures
at the end of 2022. We raised the fund
to go do that. Funnled all of our angel
investments that we were naturally
getting into Bankless Ventures. Hired
Brent who actually was is now just
finding deals earlier in earlier stages
because we were as angels. We were not
actively finding deals. We were actively
making podcasts. Brent goes and actively
finds deals. And so Brent's very good at
it. Um but then the real game about like
uh so so the so we are me and Ryan are
not really finding deals as aggressively
anymore because Brent is just really
good at it. But what we do is like we
seal the deal. We're like we come into
the um the calls with portfolio
companies, we sus them out, we give the
thumbs up, thumbs down, and if we give
the thumbs up, it's usually into a deal
that's pretty competitive. And so we
actually have to pitch bankless ventures
as like please take our check. And
that's that's where like having media's
network, that is the thing that does
overlap between media and ventures is
our network. The network is the same.
And I have no conflicts of interest
leveraging like media's network because
that's really my network. That's Ryan's
network for the benefit of Bankless
Ventures. That is the thing that
Bankless Ventures leverages is media's
network and so we can just connect any
portfolio company to who they want to be
connected to and that's why they like us
and that's why they take our money.
Another kind of like opportunity I want
to open uh because I think a lot of
lessons were learned from this. The the
most like recent controversy that
Banklist was a part of was the whole AIC
token and it was not limited to bank
list. I think that there was a lot of
issues that were probably on the token
issuers and the lockup schedule. Uh but
maybe this is another instance where
there was an overlap between VC and
media and that you did indeed have EAZ
as on the rollups before. So people were
just like connecting dots that might not
have existed. Can you just share what
the lessons learned were and ways that
we as an industry, we as content
creators can really avoid a similar
instance like this in the future? Yeah.
So, I'll just kind of recap through the
events. Uh, AJ, the co-host, I've known
him for years. Uh, we first had him on
the bank bank list podcast when he was
the product manager for Coinbase's
staking operation in 2021, maybe it's
2022. Um, and then I just have I just
have known him personally in addition to
that through our time in crypto. We're
both in New York. And so, I brought him
and Ron and I uh found him. I introduced
him to Ryan at Permissionless. And then
he was just talking Ryan's ear off about
like this AI sector that he's super
bullish on. And that was that was
October of 2024. So he was like, I think
AI agents are huge and I think they're
really cool. That was in October. Uh and
he Ryan felt very comfortable with him.
I trust him indiv as an individual. And
so when AI agents actually did get very
huge, we're like, "Oh, we know just the
guy to bring on to the podcast to do
this." And AI agents were were a
dominant theme. And so we started to
make a dedicated AI rollup uh episode.
In addition to that, EAZ, he he had quit
his job from Coinbase like way longer
ago. And so he was like unemployed and
it's like okay I'm I'm gonna make a fund
uh in in the AI in the AI crypto space
and that that turned into AICC
uh and he made that like independently
like he was just doing that on his own
time like he's one of for us he's a once
a week podcast co-host and then he has
you know time so he made AIC he found
two other co-founders uh and so that was
like around the seventh five sixth or
seventh like AIC um AI weekly rollup
episode he told me and Ryan like hey I'm
making AICC um I'm just like bringing in
bunch of like teams and kind of chats in
the space and advisers if you guys want
in like it's just like a five soul and
it's like okay sure great never talked
about it on the podcast not one time did
we ever talk about it on the podcast not
one time I don't think he was knew he
was going to make AICC when we invited
him on to um uh to be an AI rollup host
we didn't even know and so like we sent
him five soul on like a Tuesday and then
the project got like launch of the
weekend uh and like like you said there
was had we gone back in time we would
have totally said like hey maybe we
should put in investing on this thing.
Ben Leoff, our GP, did what his job was,
which is he go and he went and secured
an allocation for Bankless Ventures. And
I think this is probably the thing that
like I wish uh AICC had done
differently, which is like just be a
little bit more intentional about this
like whole whitelisting thing because it
turned into like some sort of just how
do I get into be in the AIC like
whitelist and how do I get how do I get
like a.5 or one soul allocation and it
just was like you were the right person
and you DM the right person. There was
no method there's no methodology to it
and then that was a mess. in combination
there was no vesting uh and so the
tokens were liquid on day one and like
the tokens being liquid on day one I'm
like I'm a crypto veteran who's also a
public media I know I'm not touching
those tokens Ryan knows not to touch
those tokens like that's just toxic you
just don't touch those tokens but it's
totally fine because we just trust
ourselves and we're not going to touch
these tokens um uh Ben Lake off got an
allocation for himself personally uh he
got Bankless Ventures an allocation uh
he tried to like snipe the supply uh he
like played funny games by like trying
to snipe the supply lost that bet. Uh so
he tried to recoup his losses by selling
some of his personal allocation. Then he
was like, "Well, that's a bad look if a
GP of Bankless Ventures is selling his
personal allocation but not the from the
fund." And so he went and like he sold
an equivalent amount from the fund
because he's like doing fundraising
calls for Bankless uh LPs and he's like,
"Well, that's a bad look. So let me go
make sure that bad luck doesn't exist."
And then and then the Twitter like
lights up. It's like Bankless Ventures
is selling the tokens day one. And then
me and Ryan are like, "No, we're not.
Like we're not doing that. Like we would
why would we do that?" And that's not
what we would do. And then we learned
that like, no, that actually did happen.
Look, that is a terrible look. So, and
by the way, that was $64,000 worth of
tokens that were sold. Um, we we go tell
Ben like, Ben, like that's a terrible
look. You can't do that. Uh, we have to
go reby the tokens. And so, we rebought
the tokens. Uh, we ended up with 5% more
AICC tokens just because of the price
discrepancy at the time. And then that
was the mess. The narrative became that
bankless like engineered this whole
thing like we we were create the
creators of AICC. we were shilling it on
the podcast. Uh we dumped millions of
dollars on our followers and like all
three of those things were false. We we
were informed about the existence of
AICC like 5 days before the token went
launched. Um we never talked about it
one time on the podcast. We still have
not talked about it on the podcast. Uh I
wish that Ben hadn't like done the fun
like onchain shenanigans that he did. Uh
but like mistakes are mistakes. He's
learned from his mistakes. Um, it's just
he he doesn't have the same like media
incentives that we do because like he's
not he's not like he doesn't have a
quarter million followers of followers
on Twitter, right? He's not on the
bankless media team. He doesn't have
those instincts. We have those
instincts. Um, and so that was like an
unfortunate
um like set of events that happened. And
but at the end of the day, it was
$64,000 that we sold from Banklist Media
from excuse me, from Bankless Ventures.
Uh Banklist Media didn't have an
allocation. Um it was just me and Ryan.
Uh and then we just immediately rebought
the tokens. But like this the scar of
the event is like huge and like the
reality of it is like yeah we just like
sold 64,000 tokens then rebought $64,000
of tokens uh really really quickly like
whoops. I'm really sorry. Like yeah.
Yeah. Uh thank you for going into that.
I know it's probably a pain in the ass
to deal with. I myself have actually
been arguing with an individual on
Twitter who put $6 worth of gas into
something a year and a half ago and he's
mad that the project hasn't launched
yet. and this is still something that
he's willing to like fight tooth and
nail for. So, you know, it it doesn't
matter the sum of money at the end of
the day, there's always going to be
people that just want to poke and prod.
So, I think it's like we zoom out wrap
up. Um maybe you can just kind of like
share a a moment of like empathy. What
are the difficulties of being so front
and center in this space and like what
are the things that you constantly have
to be dealing with and that you are
already kind of like getting ahead of
and you you just mentioned that you know
not to sell tokens because that's just
not what you do as a a media
personality. What just like from your
perspective what are like I guess the
trials and tribulations of being a
popular name um in crypto? Yeah. Um I
think the big one is
like there are people's interpretations
of like me as an individual and as
bankless as an entity that they create
their like perception of like me and
bankless from like a back and forth from
like Twitter discourse and Twitter is
this like hall of mirrors. Uh, and
there's a lot of people who like don't
listen to the Bank list podcast that
have very strong opinions about
Banklist. And so like they're they're
coming from a place where like well they
don't actually like listen. They don't
know what I'm the words that I'm saying
or or they don't hear what banklist is
putting out. They have an opinion on
bank list from like the tweets that they
read or the tweets about banklist that
other people that Mert tweeted out uh
and is like creating some some like
extremely warped version of reality.
Like like I said about the AIC thing,
like some people were saying that Bank
list engineered the whole entire
organization in the first place, that we
pumped up the like awesomeness of AIC on
the podcast before the token launched
and that we dumped tens of millions of
followers. This is like the warping that
some people like intentionally make
about us and then it's a few loud
minority people and then like a lot of
the silent middle like doesn't know what
to think because they're they're low
context, right? they don't have as much
context and they have me on one side
saying like that didn't happen and then
they have other people on the other side
saying well that did happen and they're
like I don't know what to think and then
they see like oh there's a podcast with
a VC arm like clearly where there's
smoke there's fire. Uh and so like it's
it's feels like it's pushing back
against this like insurmountable force
of just like it's you can what's that
one like God's law like you can produce
on the internet faster than
anyone can like refute it. And so like
that's what it is. And so at some point
I just it has like lost a little bit of
my faith in humanity and I know that I
shouldn't have that because it's just
Twitter and it's like and crypto
unfortunately this is something I'm also
coming to terms with broadly. just like
well crypto like the community kind of
sucks like as a whole like there's
pockets of really cool people and
there's some of the best most brightest
people in crypto and then there's also
just like this cesspool of that I
think crypto like it's not anyone
individual's fault but I think crypto
really incentivizes it. It's some
combination of just like the economy
like m getting a job sucks, the economy
sucks. Uh like you no zoomers and
millennials can't afford homes and so
they have to yolo their bags and if
someone else is making a bag that
reduces the likelihood of their making a
bag and so no one can be supportive of
anyone else making any money. Uh, and
it's very zero sum and like some
something about crypto and the
combination of crypto and Twitter has
really created that and that's like the
environment that I've been living in and
like trying to like hold off from like
letting that like toxicity invade my
soul. And that's hard. That's hard. Um,
and especially when I'm like I've just
been I I think I I hold myself to a very
high ethical standard. I think I have
operated as a leader in this industry
better than 99% of people. Um, Ryan Ryan
like especially when people like call
Ryan a scammer that goes straight to his
heart because Ryan holds himself to the
highest standard that I've ever seen
someone hold himself to. And for that to
that reality of like the high standard
that he's hold himself to to not like
show up in people's opinions of him like
really really just brings him down. He's
like why am I doing this? Like people
act like people actually think I'm a
scammer and I have done literally
nothing. And I have I have hopefully
shifted the Overton window away from
scamming as a result of my time in
crypto. That's how he feels. That's how
I feel. And so like though that gap
there between like people think banklist
is a bunch of scammers and like in in
fact like I think we think that we have
held ourselves to the highest of
integrities and we've set an example for
what you can do as a media company in
crypto. There's a big ass gap there and
that's extremely unfortunate and it
makes me sad. Um, but uh the bankless
like listener base knows it's a bunch of
and I appreciate them and
they're in our discord and so whenever
there's like a bunch of like mobbings on
Twitter, I just go into our discord with
our our community and they're like
saying like, "Oh, this is once again the
most ridiculous mob attack on bank list
I've ever seen. I'm really sorry, but
like really appreciate the content that
you guys put out." And so that's why I
do it. Well, shout out to your
community. And I guess we'll I'll end on
one final quick question. As a podcaster
who respects the kung fu that you and
your team have done, what is one piece
of advice you can give to a podcast
entity that really wants to grow their
reach and their audience? Uh, lesson
learned that you guys have walked away
from from your five years in the space.
Yeah, you asked about uh kind of the
behind the scene logistics that goes
into a podcast and you talk about like
kind of the hardware and the editing and
all the the backend work. The thing that
you didn't mention is prep time. Uh and
so we have hour to hour and a half long
podcast episodes and we generally do a
kind of a two to one prep to record
time. Uh and so if an hour if a podcast
is going to be one hour there's
generally two hours of prep and studying
and research and agenda production and
that used to actually be way higher and
we've just gotten better at it. Uh I
used to put make a like me and Ryan used
to make three four five page long Google
docs of like notes and bullet points of
like talking points that we wanted to
make through our episodes and those were
some of the earliest episodes of bank
list is kind of like how we got a
foundation. So you like a lot of people
think that everyone wants to start a
podcast um but no one actually wants to
mo most people just want to hear
themselves talk. What the listeners want
is they want you to go prep ahead of
time very deeply, become very informed
and ask the most precise questions
possible and that takes like a ton of
prep time behind the scenes. Awesome.
Well, David Hoffman, co-host of
Banklist, I hope we got to turn Lemon
into Lemonade. Thank you so much for
coming on into the lion's den. Uh, we
started with a little bit of negative
back and forth, but I definitely learned
a lot from your responses and yeah, I
just appreciate the time you took to to
come on the Smart Economy podcast. I
really appreciate you. Yeah, thanks
Dylan. Um, I didn't feel like this was a
line instead at all. I thought you were
pretty tame. I think you could have been
spicier.
Awesome, man. Well, David, I got to let
you go, but yeah, thank you so much. Uh,
hope you get to climb in Colorado and
looking forward to running into you at
uh, future crypto conferences. Yeah,
thanks a lot, D. I I do appreciate
giving the opport being given the
opportunity to be on the other side of
the mic and you're a very gracious host.
Uh and yeah, I hope the listeners
enjoyed it. Much obliged. Cheers.
Cheers. Thank you so much for tuning in
to the Smart Economy podcast. To stay in
the loop with our latest episodes and
insights, head over to
www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all of our video content. If
you enjoyed today's discussion, please
consider showing your support by liking,
commenting, and reviewing this episode
on your favorite podcasting platform.
Your feedback helps us reach more
listeners and brings even better content
your way. We'd also love to hear from
you, so please drop a comment on Spotify
or YouTube to share what topics you'd
like us to cover or who you'd like to
see as our next guest. And if you or
someone you know would make a great
guest, please don't hesitate to reach
out. We're always on the hunt for fresh
voices and new perspectives. For our NEO
token holders out there, please consider
voting for NEO news today as your
council representative. We've proudly
been serving the NEO ecosystem since
2017, and we'll continue to do so by
putting portions of our council rewards
directly back into ecosystem growth
initiatives.
So, one more time, thank you so much for
listening to the Smart Economy podcast,
and we look forward to catching you next
time.